From Hansel minutes.com it's Hansel
minutes, a weekly discussion with
web developer and technologists. Scott
Hanselman posted by Carl Franklin. This
is Lawrence Ryan announcing show number
one 38. Recorded live Wednesday,
November 12th, 2008. Support for Hanselman it's
just provided by teller. The
most comprehensive suite of components
for windows forms and asp.net
web applications. online@wwwdottelerik.com. Support is
also provided by.net developers journal.
The world's leading dotnet developer
magazine online at www dot
dot com. In this
episode, Scott talks with Rick
Brewster author of pink.net. Hi,
this is Scott Hanselman and
this is another episode of
Hansel minutes, and I'm sitting
here with Rick Brewster, author
of paint.net, the man, the
legend paint.net, the only application
to have crushed paintbrush. How's
it going, Rick? Thanks for
chatting with me today. Yeah,
thanks. I'm pretty good. So
how did this happen? How
did you decide how'd you
guys decide to make a
paint application? Oh, well it
started my last semester of
college at Washington state university.
We were doing a senior
design project and one of
the projects we got was
from Microsoft to say, Hey,
why don't we do a
paint program using GDI plots?
And so we had a
mentor attached to it that
helps us kind of go
through the process of setting
up requirements and doing some
sign stuff and implementing it
and making sure we have
an actual professional quality product
with things like documentation. And
then after that, I just
kind of ran with it
on my own and did
some updates. And there was
another set of kids back
at wazoo that I actually
mentored to a version two
release of it, including Tom
Jackson. Who's also here at
Microsoft now, and then we
just kept running with it
since then and doing purpose,
especially based on what the
community kept asking me for
you. I think like gradients
a special curve to all
to features that were community
feed or based on community
feedback. How much of the
process is plowing forward? Just
kind of pushing yourself forward,
even though the code doesn't
feel right versus looking back
refactoring and saying, well, we
really can't do, you know,
feature B until we change
the plugin model. Oh, that's
a pretty big question. There
are sometimes when there's a
small feature that we can
implement, that gets us a
lot of sort of bang
for the buck. For example,
when I implemented the ability
for the line tool to
also draw curves, that was
a pretty simple one. The
gradient tool was also one
where we just added additive
using the existing architecture, but
then there is also sort
of this huge swap of
features that we can put
it off for a really
long time because the architecture
of paint.net doesn't support it
in a clean way or
at least in a way
where, you know, we'd have
to implement a lot of
stuff, you know, say in
three different ways. And then
if we wanted to redo
that architecture in a better
way, we'd have to re
implement those three things. Anyway.
So it's kind of a
hard question to ask because
there's a lot of teachers
that actually have, you know,
I've been putting off until,
I guess the, you know,
now approaching the mythical status
version 4.0, which is going
to have every feature under
the sun, of course, but
at least it's getting that
reputation. Whole thing is written
in C sharp, right? Is
there any C plus plus
It's it is mostly C
sharp. There is senior C
plus plus for there's a
shell extension, which handles things
like some nails and Explorer
for the native top. He
didn't file type. There is,
there's a clipping library for
polygons called GPC, which is
also written in actually, I
guess it's mostly C and
then there's a library called
squish, which the DDS, which
stands for direct cross surface.
I uses that for decoding
and encoding of the DDS
file format, which is something
that they've used for games
and the X and a
in the Xbox development stuff
a lot. Hmm. Now, you
know, now that seven's coming
out, windows seven is coming
out. Do you feel pressure
to revise it and make
your app look pretty on
seven? Because I've installed it
on seven and it doesn't
quite have that gloss. I
do get people asking me
to put a ribbon in
there pretty much all the
time, but if it's something
I have to approach carefully
in order to avoid, what's
called the cargo cult mentality
where people where you think,
Oh, if I just add
a ribbon, it'll be better.
Are you, are you familiar
with their cargo Colt metaphor?
I am cargo cult programming.
Right? So it's kind of
related back to that. I
think it was, you know,
back in world war two
or the natives on an
Island had an abandoned air
strip, and they'd decided to
go out there and do
kind of the air traffic
controller, hand signs, but then
the planes with food and
supplies do not come so
Well. I think that the
ribbon is an interesting thing
because it's more of a
people think of it as
being a feature that you
just slap in, but really
it's, it's supposed to be
a usability improvement, but if
you just take the existing
menus and toolbars and
them, you aren't necessarily improving
usability, you're just adding a
ribbon. So I'm sure that
this will be a lot
of thought about the user's
workflow and how they, how
they live inside of paint.net
that you're going to need
to think about. Otherwise you're
going to make a lot
of people angry. Exactly. It
can't just be, you know,
a reshuffling of the UI.
It has to actually be
something that, because in office
they put in a whole
lot of thought in terms
of, they put a whole
of thought into the workflow
and the feature accessibility and
how they organized stuff. It
wasn't just, you know, we're
moving to menus and dropping
those into tabs on the,
on the ribbon. It was,
it was a much more
intricate process. Yeah. Now, one
of the things that I
wanted to talk to you
about that I, that I
like about paint.net as that
I think stands out is
its set up process. I
think that it's got an
extraordinarily clean setup. It doesn't
appear that you're using the
standard kind of MSI set
up to the exe that
pops out of, you know,
visual studio. And I've always
kind of found that the
fact that two files pop
out both in MSI and
any exe to be a
little confusing, but paint.net has
always been, if you've got
that down on your machine,
it's always pretty easy to,
to install. How much work
are you putting into the
setup application? There's actually been
quite a lot of work
that's been put into there.
I can do a little
bit of history on the
installer if you want me
to start with that. Okay.
So originally paint on that,
which is distributed as an
NSI, which was generated from
visual studio set up was
her project. And you know,
you kind of create it
in your studio. You point
it towards your main executable
and it figures out the
dependencies and create TNSI you
tell it the product name
and the default installation directory.
And then you're kind of
done. And this works great
for a lot of simple
projects, but as paint on
that grew there, you know,
I needed to do more
things with my installer. One
of those was localization and
this is kind of difficult
to do at least in
a way that's integrated with
the whole rest of the
localization. But it's difficult to
do with the building setup
was you, can't just, it
doesn't have access to the
same strings pool, et cetera.
So I wrote my own
setup wizard, which then P
and volts into the windows
installer deal, MSI that deal
to run the MSI, which
is still built with the
setup with your project inside
of the studio. The other
thing that had to be
dealt with was doing updates.
And this was something that
I don't know if you've
worked with building a or
building MSPs, but I went
through a lot of the
documentation and was unable to
really figure out how to
do them or how to
do them correctly or to
get some good examples online.
So I decided that the
update process for paint on
that was just going to
be a fun install. And
then re-install, and the setup
wizard is written in C
sharp. And so it also
gives me complete control over
the user experience. For example,
if I want to do
like a WPF version of
the installed, I could do
that. And it would be
a pretty cool experience, but
you know, might not be
necessary. And the other thing
that you kind of get
with installers is that once
it works, you kind of
don't want to touch it
that much. So, you know,
the fact, you know, like
I said, I'm still using
the built in setup, was
a project in Google studio.
That's kind of an artifact
of the fact that it,
it works. So I'm not
going to touch it. And
it's not really something that
affects the user experience. So
it's not really, it's not
a priority to change that.
No, I just took, as
we were talking just now
I just took a paint.net
three, three, six, 3.36, and
I ran it and it
prompted me for an update.
It said, Hey, there's a
new version. And no, I,
I had something else like
three, three, five, it said
three, three, six. I hit
install paint on that, shut
down. And they, the installer,
when it re it, it
removed and, and then reenter
it, removed the old version
and installed the new version.
And now it wants to,
to restart my computer. Why
is that? I'm not sure.
There's probably, Yeah. That's part
of the builtin MSI experience
because there's the cool paint.net
set up thing on the
outside. There's that, that white
dialogue says paint that is
being installed, that you then
call out, like you said,
into the MSI at that
point, you know, where they
have a lot of control,
like it wants to reboot,
but I have no way
of knowing why. Right. But
it's probably the standard. There
was some system file it's
locked or maybe it was
installing the, probably the system
that was locked, that it
was trying to update or
something. Hmm. What did you
write the little outside party?
And like right now it
says optimizing performance for your
system. This is when you
call engine, right? That's the
other thing that needed to
be in the installer that
was, you can do it
as part of the MSI,
but the user experience isn't
quite the same, but it's
not as integrated. You know,
it just ends up being,
as you know, another block
on the progress bar where
this point I can actually
call it out and say,
Hey, I'm doing something that
might take a minute. And
here's what it is, where
the user gets a little
more information about it. And
what did, what did you
write the setup part, the
wrapper part in that's C
plus plus That that setup
was like UI, it's a
C sharp. It uses one
forms. Yeah. And that actually
kind of segues into the
whole food shopper retainer that
I use that have to
detect.net before you can install
paint.net and not actually significantly
impacts the set up experience
for contentment. All right. So
this is where it's getting
interesting. People may have lost.
We may have lost a
couple of people there cause
I'm, I'm jumping around here,
but let's start at the
beginning. You, you download, you
go to your site, you
go to get paint.net and
you hit download and you
bring down this zip file.
It's a, it's like a
Meg and a half. It
takes no time at all.
And inside the zip file
is an executable. And when
you run that executable, you
know, you get the little
prompt and it's signed, there's
a digital signature there, right.
Cause you've gone to the
work of getting assert from
somebody and you've signed that,
that executable. So when you
get the little complaint from
Vista, it's actually a nice
complaint because it says, Oh
well, there's, this is really
from dot PDN LLC. This
is from the corporation. Right?
How did so will you,
you have signed what at
that point? So the way
that works is I purchased
a signing certificate from, I
think it was Komodo. And
then you install it into
your local certificate story. You
give it the right name.
And then I have some
as part of my build
process where I actually set
some environment variables that say,
you know, assign PDN is
one or zero, because it
does add some time to
the build process. And then
it either, you know, the
time to file with the
correct name in there and
the correct certificate, which is
stored in a certificate store.
And it has to do
that for, you know, the
outer wrapper, the inner setup
exe, and a couple of
other things. Yeah. So I'm
looking at a little file
on my hard drive right
now. It says paint.net three,
three, six, and I right.
Click and say properties. There's
a tab in the properties.
It says signature list. And
it shows that you stamp
this in August so I
can go see Komodo. I
can see dot PDN LLC.
And then it's been signed.
If I double click on
it, I get the little
prompt, which is a nice
one because it says, this
is from you. So I
know it's not some random
evil paint.net. And then there's
this, It's not the big,
scary yellow version of the
EAC dialogue either. Exactly. That's
a good point. The scary
yellow version of the dialogue
is the, this is unsigned.
Correct. So, so that's, that's
how, that's how people who
have share work and avoid
that dialogue is to sign
they're right there. They're out
of right. And the thing
with the digital certificate, or,
you know, assigned file is
it's not that it's not,
you know, like an antivirus
thing. Now you can't promise
that something that's signed, isn't
going to do something bad,
but you can at least
attribute that executable to somebody.
You know, like if I
sign it and a signature
is holding up, then you
know that the file hasn't
been tampered with. So you
know, that the only person
that could have put that
code in there, it was
me, but it wasn't like,
you know, some website with
some random junk in there,
that's doing something bad to
your computer. Now that doesn't
mean I'm not doing something
that I wouldn't do something
bad, but You know, that's
really a, that's really interesting
because that, that, that is
one of the things that
is similar for SSL certificates.
When, when my wife visits,
you know, our bank, she
thinks that HTTP S appearing
in the address bar and
having a little lock there
indicates that she really is
talking to that bank. And
it really only indicates privacy.
It doesn't indicate that Saying
this hasn't been tampered with.
Right. So when you know
a virus, I really enterprising
virus writer could certainly buy
a assert and then say,
yes, this is evil. I
promise. But it's so evil
that I've signed it with
assert, which allows you to
attribute, attributed to them. Unless
of course they stole your
assert, I suppose. Right, Right.
So yeah. The other thing
with the cert is that
it gives something of a
paper trail so that, you
know, if the file hasn't
been tampered with, then the
only person that could have
created, it was the person
who has that certificate for
has the private side of
that certificate, which if it
hasn't been stolen is going
to be me. So, you
know, you know, they can,
I suppose, go to the
records of whoever issued the
certificate and figure out who
created that file. Exactly. So
I double click on this
and I get a little
pop up. I hit continue,
and then there's a flash.
It just takes a second,
just an instant. And then
a, what, what appears to
be a PDN setup folder
shows up in my app
data temp. So if I
go to my start run
menu and I type in
percent, 10% percent, you made
a PDN setup folder, unzipped
a bunch of stuff in
there. And then this really
nice dialogue pops up. It's
really pretty diluted. What is
the outer shell written in?
And, and what was that
flash that I saw? Alright,
so, so Mike, you said,
you know, something, a bunch
of files in that PDF
setup folder. So the outer
shell of that is, you
know, your typical self extracting
executable type thing. And I'm
actually using something called MuleSoft
installer to create that, and
you can, it's called NSI
or NSIF I think, and
you can use that to
create an entire setup experience,
but I'm actually only using
it for myself extraction process.
And for checking a couple
of other things, like I
checked to see if you're
running on windows 95%, you
can't actually compile an exe
registered in 2008. That does
that. So, Yeah, that's actually
called NSIs, right? It's the,
it's called the pimp. Do
you know that it's called
what N S I S
no soft, super pimp installation
system. I thought the ice
did for installation. Nope, Nope,
no soft. Or the guys
that made when amp, and
this is the set up
program that they made for
Winamp and an S I
S, which is the installation
system is called a null
soft. That's the N super
pimp installation system. They changed
it to no soft scriptable
installation system, if, cause people
are offended by pimp, but
pimp stands for plugin mini
packager, right? So it's an
acronym within an acronym and
it's a really, really tight,
clean, very, very small installer.
So you wrote a little
tiny installer whose only job
it is, is to look
in the temp folder and
then unzip itself and then
run another installer pretty much.
That's pretty clever. So then
I'm looking@thisdialogthatsayspaint.net, and it says
quick installation or custom installation.
This is a WinForms application
I'm looking at, Right. It's
a wind farm that, and
there's actually a little history
behind the quick and the
custom buttons there. It used
to be that paint on
that went through, you know,
using the default installer UI
that was creating visual studio.
It had, you know, Hey,
you know, here's your license
agreement here? You know, where
do you want to install
it? What options do you
want, et cetera. But most
people installing a software and
I can get into a
whole discussion about what I,
what I'm referring to. When
I say most people, they
don't care about most of
that stuff. So the quick
option gives them, you know,
basically a two or three
click installation without access, or
without needing to look over
all those sort of nerdy
options. And that actually really
just cleans up the UI
quite a bit. Yeah. There's
just that one option it's
next and finished at that
point. It's pretty much at
that point. All you have
to do is accept you
and then bam, it just
goes, installed it with all
the default options. Cause most
people don't really care about
where it gets installed or
they just want it to
use sane and default options.
So that's what I gave
them. Now you're a, you're
a, you know, a micro
ISV, independent software vendor, and
you're a small one cause
it's you, why have a
ULA at all? Is that
just did your lawyer say
to do that? Or what's,
what's the whole point of
a eulogy. It's a general
legal thing. You know, if
you release some software without,
without a ULA, then there's
sort of the, I'm not
a lawyer of course, but
you want to make sure
that people realize, Hey, you
know, this software carries no
warranties. You can't come after
me for damages, but you
know, in return, I'm also
not charging any money for
it. So The eight, the
eight of you guys that
wrote this originally, like all
the different folks, yourself, Chris,
Tom, Mike, all these guys
that were involved, just hired
a lawyer and made it
a little LLC. And who
wrote this license? Oh no,
the license is actually, it's
the MIT license. And it's
basically, Hey, here's some software
and you can do whatever
you want with it, but
we can't remove our copyright.
And so the other guys
actually were involved before the
LLC was formed. The LLC
is actually just mine. It's
a sole proprietorship. Oh, I
see. So I'm looking at
the quick and custom options
and this application is the
setup front end dot exe.
So I double clicked on
the outer wrapper. That was
the little Knoll soft stuff.
It unzipped into a folder.
I've got set up front
end on exe. And then
I've got to set up
front and set up front
end exe config file. This
is that little config file
that tells.net what runtime version
is preferred. This one says
that it uses 2.0 as
the minimum, but it also
has a little additional bit
of information that some people
may not have seen before,
which is skew equals client.
So you're saying that your
little installer will work with
the dotnet three, five client
skew or what we call
the client profile. Is that
correct? That's correct. That's something
that you have to add
in otherwise, if you have
the client profile installed and
you run a program that
does not say skew equals
client, it will pop up
a dialogue that says this
program requires done that
don't get it. And so
if you try to install,
paint on that 3.35, it
will. Or if you're trying
to sell on a system
that has the client profile
installed and not be full.net,
it will give you that
weird dialogue. So it's 3.36,
Oh, it was a.zero one
update. This was one of
the things that went in
there, ensure that paint on
that. What installed justifying if
you had just a client
profile installed. Okay. Cause the
client profile is the subset
of the Dutton framework. And
rather than assuming that applications
will work with the, with
the subset they've added this
skew equals client attribute in
order to basically declare that
I know that I'll work
with this, this, this subject.
So you opt in and
you, you work great, just
fine with the smaller net.net
framework. Did you have to
put a lot of thought
into that? And I didn't
have to put much thought
into it in terms of
the development, but it actually
did affect my installation process
a bit because I never
had to include these dot
config files before. So now
I had to go through
and make sure it was
included both in the MSI
and in the self extractor.
And in the way I
did my update because I
actually copy a little exe
called update monitor into the
test folder while I'm running
and installer. Now, when I'm
doing an update and it
also needed to make sure
that I also had to
make sure that the dot
config file was copied along
with that too. Now in
this temporary folder, there's also
a setup, shim dot exe.
What is that for? That
is actually the thing that
is executing set up front
end at EMC. So when
the MFIs rapper extracts itself,
it then runs set up.
Shinda exe set up. Shin
has written, or it's a
small exe and it's written
in C and it checks
for things like windows installer,
the correct version of that
done at frameworks. And just
to make sure that, you
know, all the other files
are there. Oh, and it
also checks to make sure
that the trusted installer service
is enabled when you're on
Vista, otherwise things don't work.
And I have a blog
entry about that as well.
Well, when I look at
this in process Explorer, cause
sometimes task manager doesn't give
you enough information. I'm looking
at the process tree. Okay.
So let's just take the,
the listener back to where
we were at the beginning.
I downloaded a single executable.
I double clicked on it.
And the experience was that
I got a nice dialogue
that says quicker custom. But
if I look at this
in process Explorer, I see
that paint net three, three,
six study exi called something
called mirror shim, mirror shim
called paint.net set up that
he exceeded, which called setup
shim dot exe, which called
set up front end. So
I've got five different processes
that have all our all
sitting there waiting for set
up front end to finish
its work. That seems like
a lot of stuff going
on, Right. It actually does.
See, it seems convoluted until
I explain what each one
of those does. So the
set of Shem is, you
know, I was just talking
about that. That's the main
set up workflow, but then
backing up to the paint
on that setup. That AC
that is actually another self
extractor and then mirror shim
is another little program NC.
And the reason for that
being around is because when
you install at the very
end, you get that little,
you know, it says optimizing
performance. And then it says
that little banner that says,
Hey, thanks for using pink.net.
Please donate. We can click
on that and go to
the website, but then there's
also room for a second
banner. And right now I'm
using that banner to say,
pagers new features in paint
on that version. You know,
whatever the newest one is,
but that banner is actually
a PNG that's placed by
mirror ship. And the reason
why I have sort of
a second or a separate
wrapper to put that in
is because I want to
be able to build paint.net,
sign, paint.net. And I want
to be able to change
that banner at a later
time, without having to spin
up a new built, which
has risk associated with it
in terms of, you know,
what, if somebody builds differently
or I want to change
the version number just because
you want to know The
version number and the timestamp
and everything to stay the
same, where by allowing me
to change that banner for,
you know, maybe I have
a different link that you
click on. Maybe somebody wants
to customize version for, Hey,
I'm an out, I've done
this before. I had different
versions of the installers for
beta news and major deeps.com
and some other mirrors where
they all got their different
banner, but I only had
to do the main bill
once, but, and then I
just, I redid the outer
wrapper. Okay. So mirror Shem
is just, it just extracts
that PNG. Cause what I'm
trying to understand is that
I'm looking at five executable
and I'm thinking to myself
as, as a, I guess,
as the host here, gosh,
Rick had to put a
lot of work into this
to possibly, you know, fix
some, some deficiencies on the
part of Microsoft, of these
five executable, which of them
are Rick being really focused.
You know, you personally being
really focused on attention to
detail, quality and agility versus
a deficiency in visual studio.
So I think if mirror
Shem is only job is
to put up a banner,
I'll say that that's not
a deficiency in visual studio,
but we've got the, the
outer wrapper, the unzipper the
check for, for.net check for
the different runtimes. It needs,
you know, how many of
these five executable files are
required because we didn't give
you, we Microsoft didn't give
you what you needed to
make an awesome application. It's
hard to say. I mean,
a lot of it just
stems from the complexity of
the windows environment in general,
just, you know, set up
shim has to, or set
up some, like I said,
it's the bootstrap or the
chain, or which has to
then call set up front
end, which is the actual
UI that you get. But
before it calls set up
front end, it has to
make sure that certain dependencies
are there like.net and when
there's installer. And so that's
probably the one that I
would focus on in answering
your question that, because windows
doesn't have a built in
way of me or it
way for me to be
able to tag something. I
using like say some metadata
to say this requires.net. So
before you'd run this, make
sure that the user has
that package. So you're saying
that you don't like the,
the, the standard stuff, like,
cause the, the, the, the
set up program that pops
out a visual studio will
check for.net and make sure
it downloads it and stuff.
It does check for.net, but
all you get an error
message. Oh, I see what
you're saying. And he says,
Hey, you need that net.
And here's the URL for
it. Come back when you've
got it installed. And the
problem there is that most
users will give up because
it's too difficult to go
get.net, although it has improved
recently because they put, they
put those, you know, get
it now, download links on
the front page instead of
having to do a search
for it and Wade to
the download page and try
to find the download Well,
and with, well, actually I
was one of the ways
I was one of the
guys that worked on that
to make that easier. If
so, if you, but if
you build a client profile,
a installer, you just hit
set up and it'll automatically
go and get the tiny
setup and download it and
keep going. Right. So a
lot of that is improved
with . Okay, cool. Cause
I want to, and then
you just took a job
at Microsoft. Is that right?
Right. I actually, I was,
I worked there for about
four years and then I
kinda took the summer off
and now I'm back. Okay.
And what, what group do
you work in? I'm working
in a windows fundamentals. Oh,
cool. And are you, you're
going to take all this
feedback about making a really
awesome set of program back
to the team to make
sure that it's awesome for
the next version to the
deployment folks, to like to,
well, to everybody I've actually
met with him a few
times and talked with some
of those guys and they're,
they're actually incorporating a lot
of this feedback because there's
sort of a long tail
of freeware applications out there,
which deployment of.net know they
need dominant to run, but
you know, there's like a
little 50 kilobyte share app.
Can I include that net
because that would balloon it
to 50 megabytes. And it
also is a lot difficult
for that author to make
sure that the user has
done it installed. Yeah, well,
like with my little application,
baby smash, I'm using click
once and I'm starting to
think about things like, well
now I've got a couple
of, you know, some, some
number of thousands of people
using baby smash. How do
I upgrade them effectively? What
happens if my certs expire,
I haven't gone and done
any of the signing ahead
of time. You know, I'm
starting to wonder if I'm
going to paint myself Wiser.
If you want to translate
your program in the other
languages, how do you make
sure that your installers localized?
Yeah, exactly. And it wouldn't
wouldn't, you're like, I would
think if I, if I
had the pressure of having
something as popular as paint.net,
you know, kind of hanging
over me, I would think
what's the nightmare scenario. I
assume that your nightmare scenario
would be a lousy upgrade
that would cause every, or
some large number of paint.net
users to have to re
install. Right. I guess the
nightmare scenario be. So right
now the current version that's
on the website only real
car has gotten a 2.0.
And so we're kind of
at a, a known complexity
in terms of installing that.
Now, if I want to
upgrade everybody to , you
know, for example, the next
version of paint on it
requires it, which will, all
of my users are going
to have to install the
new version of.net. And so
I have all of the
installation. So whenever you saw
something, there's a statistical failure
rate. So if 1% of
my users can't install the
new version of.net for whatever
reason, then that, you know,
I ended up, I ended
up with a flooded email
box, or just a lot
of people who are now
no longer users of paint.net.
Yeah. Now, are you going
to use the client profile?
Is that your goal? Yeah.
So the paint on that
version 3.5, which I'm hoping
to get out within maybe
like, let's say two months,
I've radically simplified the installation
process so that it doesn't
say, Hey, you need to
go get.net. It actually just
runs the bootstrapper for paint
or for.net framework. The other
thing I did was there
are some users who are
on what I call a
fresh XP box and they
need to install windows installer.
And it's not so much
that there's a lot of
people in this situation, but
when they are in that
situation, it's just a dreadful
experience because they go to
download, paint on it and
it says, Hey, you need
to go get.net. So, okay.
They go to website and
they get done it, but
then they go to try
to install that net. And
it says, Hey, you need
to go get windows installer.
And so they go, okay.
And then when it's installer
installed, and then suddenly they
go back and try to
install, paint on that and
said, Hey, you need to
go get done that may.
And they just kind of,
it's a really frustrating experience.
So now I have these
installers built into the zip
file and it just runs
them. Yeah. That is much
cleaner. You know, I think
that I don't see those
issues for two reasons because
one, I have windows update,
update everything for me, which
I think some people don't,
I mean, I'm always going
to my uncle's house or
my cousin's house and I
just I'll run windows update.
And there's always some thing
that they never clicked on.
Right. There's always that, that
check that says, you know,
make sure you have windows
genuine advantage or some thing
that they haven't clicked on.
And then I'll discover that
they haven't had windows update
running successfully since April. So
they don't have the latest
service pack.net, or they don't
have the latest whatever. So,
I mean, there's, there are
those people who keep their
machines updated. And then there
are those that just get
stuck somewhere along the line.
And then the other issue
is dial up versus broadband,
right? Having ubiquitous broadband. I
don't think about, you know,
a 60 Meg download. It
doesn't mean anything to me,
but if you go to
New Zealand or somewhere with metered
broadband or Africa, somewhere with
just dial up, then installing
something simple, like a little
one Meg paint program becomes
a day long event to
get your system up to
date. Right. And so a
lot of people think, well,
why do I need to
download 50 minutes for this
one megabyte program? That's just,
you know, it's a paint
program. And then they give
up and no, just use
the built in stuff like
paint or, you know, they
go for the larger programs,
which they think have a
better value proposition for the
amount of time that they
have to spend acquiring it.
Yeah. It'll be, it'll be
nice to get the stuff
to get three, five everywhere,
you know, too. Oh, they
do have that GDR release
coming up, which should help
a lot actually. Right. I'm
actually gonna be doing a
blog post about that. About
when the GDR general distribution
release is that what's called
GD general. What's GDR stand
for, I think it's general
distribution release. So we say
general distribution release, release, GDR
release. That's going to be
coming out in a downloadable
form by the end of
the year. And then it
will be up on windows
updates sometime at the beginning
of the year. So I'm
going to do a whole
blog post about that. So
w when, when, when that
happens, we'll start seeing rolling
updates and then we'll be
able to count on people
having, you know, who have
Vista being updated to three
five. So that should make
life a little bit easier
for, for you. As a,
as an idea, There is
still the, for programs, which
soft on XP, which is
quite a bit of them,
you still have to do
the, you know, is windows
installer. There is net there
because the update isn't going
for systems that don't have
anything installed. Cool. Are you
going to continue to do
blog posts on how to
write software, right. And how
to do, how to get
these installers? Correct. I don't
have any specific plans, but
I mean, these things kind
of come up whenever I,
you know, get in the
right mood for writing stuff.
Well, I really, I really
enjoy paint.net and I enjoy
your blog. Your blog is
at blog dot, get paint.net.
You put a lot of
really information, cool information up
there. It's all very transparent.
You talk about what your
plans are and, you know,
you put up your usage
statistics, you know, how many
people are hitting the site
per day? What, what operating
systems they are. It's really
cool to have such a
transparent sharing of information. Yeah.
It's fun to write this
stuff. It's just a matter
of, you know, when do
I have, you know, whenever
I get the free time
to do it, I have
to choose between working on
paint on it or say
drinking beer, playing video games.
And so sometimes the ladder
stuff wins out. I'm glad
that you have your priorities
straight. Cool. Well, thanks Rick
Brewster for talking to me
about.net today. This has been
another episode of Hansel minutes,
and I'll see you again
next week.